hey guys and welcome to lingual marina
channel you've asked me a lot of
questions on my Instagram about moving
to the United States thank you by the
way so much for asking them and this is
the time to sit down and answer 25 of
your questions about living in the USA
so if you're interested if you have
thoughts of maybe coming here as well
please continue watching this video
we're gonna cover different topics we're
gonna governor safety we're gonna cover
taxes we're gonna cover medical
insurance we're gonna cover groceries
like everything that is connected to a
life here in the u.s. question number
one and yes this is one of the most
common questions these days is safety in
the US and I know what's happening in
the world these days is that if
something happens somewhere in a distant
country then it's gonna flood the news
so for example what I see is that Europe
for example is flooded by refugees and
that you cannot walk safely in Germany
but then I come to Germany I come to
Munich and it's calm and nice and maybe
there are two homeless people you know
sleeping by how bahnhof which is like
the main train station and then that's
it because when people make the news
they need to show the worst of what's
happening and probably they're like five
hundred square meters of Germany where
these things are really happening but to
just go to Germany it's not like that
the same by the United States like
something happens and I know shootings
happen quite often which is not a good
thing but when they happen they're all
over the news and when you watch those
as you're like oh maybe you know it's
super unsafe in the u.s. because it's
happening like I don't know once in
three months or whatever you can have
different additives to that my attitude
is always rely on data and actually
found a website which is called Atlas
and Boots which ranks countries by their
safety let's take a look at the map that
they have here so the map shows
different countries of the world who see
that the u.s. is actually orange which
is not the safest the safest is green
and we see that Canada is the safest
Australia is the safest Europe is pretty
safe from thus Portugal in Ireland which
are like super safe as well and we can
also look at the countries ranking the
most dangerous country in the world is
Afghanistan and Syria then South Sudan
and we'll look at like a number 10 which
is my home country Russia again come
yes to Russia I don't know I feel ok
both in the US both and and in Russia
and in Germany feel pretty much the same
again it depends where you go right
there
regions in Russia I don't want to go to
their regions in the US I don't want to
go to but there are also you know places
and all the countries where nothing is
happening you're like living the most
boring life and then if we scroll
further down we see that the u.s.
actually number 36 out of like 150
something countries and yes if you want
to be like super safe place go to Canada
it's 158 number 150 but again my thought
here is when the airplane crashes you
see it all over the news but your
chances of getting in an airplane crash
I'm really really low because if we look
at how many flights are there per day
and there are thousands of flights every
day and they are all safe you know
getting into a car accident has much
higher probability and your risk of
dying from a heart disease because you
eat too much you know unhealthy fats or
your risk of dying from like artery
diseases because you eat so much sugar
those risks are higher than getting on
an airplane crash it just depends what
is this media that surrounds you I
actually stopped watching the news
because media does not represent what's
actually happening in the world it only
represents brightest the scariest events
so again it's up to you I wouldn't say
that America is the safest place in the
world we just saw the data but it
depends on your goals while you're
coming here the next question is are you
shocked by the number of homeless people
here in the famine Cisco Los Angeles
whatever yes I'm not used to that well I
wasn't used to that when I came from
Russia and again here it's all about the
attitude so I was at this exhibition
santa monica los angeles where they had
photos from hospitals where they used to
keep mentally ill people i don't know
how it's all over the world i seen those
pictures from like post-soviet countries
like similar and yes people i kept in
cages they are tied they don't have any
freedom they don't get decent food and
the conditions are really really bad if
i had a relative who had mental health
problems i wouldn't
him to stay in that facility because if
he is capable of living of taking care
of himself and the majority of homeless
people here even if they're mentally ill
they're you know navigating through
their lives yes some of them are you
know hooked to drugs and stuff but
America is a democratic country so
people are giving a lot of freedom it's
not really up to me to decide what to do
with those homeless people I would say I
just avoid areas where there too many
homeless in my neighborhood where I live
I see them from time to time but it's
like once a day maybe like in any big
city so I would say I'm shocked I know
the problem exists I don't know what's
the right way to solve it because my
goal of coming to the US was not to hide
myself from all the homeless people in
all the crime there in the world my goal
of coming here was to build my own
company I'm focused on my goal if your
goal is to get away from homeless
homelessness crisis to get away from
unsafe places go to Switzerland go to
Ireland go to Canada go to those other
places if that's a real concern but
another thing that comes to my mind if
you're concerned like about safety or
something that is like really
psychological like you're really scared
maybe talk to a psychiatrist first like
maybe talk to a professional when you
come to a new place if you have phobias
they can evolve into something else
right and then in the safest place in
the world you would have another phobia
and moving to a different place wouldn't
really solve your problem so really
think about it how where should I start
my immigration process a couple of
advice here first work on your English
language if you're not an English native
speaker English is gonna be a huge
problem here because nobody here well
almost no one here is gonna speak your
language you would need to solve a
little problems in English you would
need a signed documents you would need
to know start companies apply for jobs
go through interviews like this is the
whole process and I'm gonna talk about
that a little bit later in this video
about things that you would have to do
but English is like a must
English language never lets you down oh
and there are certain things you can do
to help your English I would highly
recommend my course it's called
intermediate to advanced
and I've recorded it together with an
ESL accredited teacher from Los Angeles
so when you go from intermediate to
advanced is basically two levels you
would have classes every single day
during 30 days on that course it's gonna
be me teaching it's gonna be vena
teaching the pre-recorded classes you
also have access to a live stream where
you can ask questions and this is a
comprehensive course that has everything
from grammar vocabulary I talk a lot
about pronunciation I talk a lot about
you fears of speaking English I talk
about how to sound more like a native
speaker
what phrases you can use how to be more
confident like all of those aspects that
you really really need when you learn
English for immigration purposes for you
know work purposes for whatever if the
link is below please sign up this is one
of our best-selling courses we launched
it this year we've had over 3,000
students and the people are so happy
with this course the link will be below
looking forward to seeing you on that
course we also have a special promotion
for this course going on right now
the prices are as low as 59 dollars per
course but we're gonna race them soon so
don't miss the chance to reserve your
spot with a discount and the next advice
for moving in the u.s. let's say you
fixed your English let's say you took
our intermediate to advanced course and
you're like okay so what's the next step
the next step is actually figuring out
your goal and I know a lot of people are
just unhappy in the place where they are
and they think that the job is that bad
they think that their manager is a bad
guy if they don't like people that
they're surrounded with and they think
that if they move to the US everything
is gonna change and yes when you come
here you're like amazed by the Sun I was
amazed by the sunshine by smiling people
by all the opportunities but a year is
gonna pass and you're gonna get used to
what surrounds you and your problems are
gonna come back and that's the worst
when you're coming here just because
you're running from something again like
the same thing as with safety a year
will pass and you will be like Oh
America is a shitty place I can't find a
job here you know everyone is super
competitive
tired everything is so expensive level
but when you're coming here with an
exact goal like I came here I want to
grow my business internationally and it
was Silicon Valley is the best place or
I want to grow my YouTube channel and
I've already started it in my country
you know moving to the s is its new
content that I would share you know just
have a specific goal and work on it and
then you know all the problems that you
encountered during your immigration
process would have fade away our girl
Charisse expensive groceries are pretty
expensive and I'm gonna talk a lot about
prices in this video but what you
shouldn't really do is you shouldn't
compare prices in your own country to
American prices because the level of
income here is completely different and
I live in one of the most expensive
cities in the u.s. so if you just listen
to me and then you come to South
Carolina you're gonna find the phrases
are a lot lower there so for example how
my groceries the routine looks like
twice a week I have delivery from
instacart and I'm gonna leave a link
below so you can also use it if you're
in the u.s. really convenient so they
deliver groceries groceries have arrived
yogurt yogurt cottage cheese sour cream
add that oh condensed milk my favorite
the sauerkraut
sixty dollars is each delivery then once
a week I would go to a farmers market to
get fresh fruit and vegetables because
it's really a different quality I can
totally say if a tomato is from a
farmer's market or from it even like the
best organic shop so there I would
normally spend like seventy dollars and
I also have a girl who comes in once a
week to cook meals for us
and we pay her around like seventy
dollars for cooking and we'll so go out
every single day because yes we have
that cooked food we have groceries at
home but because we're so busy during
the day whenever I feel that something
is expensive I just tell myself I need
to make more money so and yes we go out
every day for two people it's gonna be
around fifty dollars per meal so yes
it's expensive but I came to the u.s. to
you know grow financially and grow as an
entrepreneur so for me this is not
something that's stopping me no no the
next question is is it expensive to rent
an apartment in the United States again
the same thing as with groceries if you
want to rent something that I rent like
this place it's around six thousand
dollars a month which is again a lot you
can rent a room 15 minutes drive from
here for like $800 completely different
lifestyle but yes you can save a lot of
money you can go to New Mexico like it's
a whole small town there and rent a
couch at somebody's home for $160 so it
depends on where you're going really but
you can take a look at different
websites there is hot beds calm there is
Zillow calm and if you're in the States
you can just walk around and look at the
leasing offices science and just go in
and ask how much the rent is cultural
aspects in America like do I go to
theaters are there a lot of theaters
though like performances I come from a
country where culture is a big thing
like people go to theaters a lot you'll
go to museums a lot but I am NOT
that kind of person whenever I tell I've
never so we have an Oprah house here in
San Francisco we have San Francisco
Ballet we have a lot of museums and I've
been here since 2016 and I haven't done
anything like I haven't done a ballet
show or like Oprah show I've been to a
couple of museums when my mom came here
cuz she likes that what I loved I
actually like when I come to a perform
not even the performances to talk by
entrepreneurs then again because I'm
this entrepreneurial kind of personality
I prefer it more when I come somewhere
to hear a successful businessman talk
about his experience and have ability to
ask questions like conferences so if you
want that cultural life of course it's
here I wouldn't say us is the place to
go for like ballet and Oprah and stuff
but yes there are these things and if
you want them you can get them beauty
industry you know it's concerned for
certain girls for example is it
expensive it is pretty expensive but
again it's not a good idea to compare
stuff one country to another two weeks
ago I had many cure and pedicure done in
LA and I paid $100 for both including
tips and it was a really nice place they
gave me a massage it was the Roma
therapy really nice in San Francisco
used to have a girl who would come to my
place and do manicure and pedicure at a
home for $60 which is also not a lot but
she moved to LA and I stopped doing that
where did you get the money to move to
the US so again I moved here because we
got an offer from an accelerator to
invest $100,000 into a company and we
had some small savings we had like I
don't I don't even remember but like
maybe $2,000 $3,000 to come here and
then our CTO was a third co-founder he
had some savings so we survived and it's
really survived because Silicon Valley
is really expensive so we survived
and then we got investment and because
we're going through the program we were
able to spend some of that investment on
renting a small apartment one-bedroom in
Mon Vieux get some groceries and stuff
again you need to come here with a goal
pure coming to study then you would need
to either save money or get financial
aid if you're coming here to work I
would say secure a place before you come
here or at least secure interviews so
you come here and do your interviews and
get an offer if you're coming here to
you know start a business we already had
experience in business we started in
2011 we started in Russia and when we
got some traction we came here in 2015
and we had an offer so it's not like we
were just coming you know to spend the
last money and to inspire have insurance
okay my health insurance costs $600 a
month and we paid the same for Dimitri
and it doesn't mean that it covers
everything because every time I go to
see a doctor
I pay around fifty five dollars
depending on the doctor from 35 to $55
copay and sometimes things happen that
my insurance doesn't cover something so
I was referred to this procedure in a
different hospital I came to that
hospital they did a procedure then I
ended up paying $700 out-of-pocket just
because that hospital was out of network
so they're an in-network providers and
out of network and you really have to
check every single time you go somewhere
if the provider is in network and if
he's not then you're gonna have some
problems paying your bills and the next
question it would be like what was the
toughest thing about moving to the yes I
would say navigating health insurance
because I don't know how people do that
because I have an assistant who helps me
with that like calling my insurance
making sure the doctor is in network
like asking all the financial questions
but it is crazy
like seriously there are so many things
you need to know ideally you would need
to work for a company that has the best
insurance in the world like I have
Google Facebook whatever like all the
tech companies have the best insurance
so you don't have to worry if you are
like me like entrepreneur you would have
to figure out insurance yourself and yes
it takes a while and yes it takes a lot
of research so yeah
health and well but on the other side
again yes it's expensive expensive yes
it's complicated but I'm so glad I have
an opportunity to go to like the best
doctor is the best Hospital in the world
in this area and it's ten minute drive
from from my house so the level if you
if you know where you need to go if you
know how to find a good specialist you
can really find good people here the
next question is about bureaucracy like
paying for gas paying for utilities and
stuff I would say everything is really
easy and really automated you know I
have this PG&E service every month I
just click one button and they deduct
payments from my card and we pay around
I think $30 a month for like light and
gas the rest is taken care off by my
building so a trash sewer is included in
rent I think it's like $120 so they just
deduct everything together and what I
like about these Morton buildings is
that when something breaks I can just
call the reception and they would come
in and fix it like change the light bulb
you know something you know the vent is
dirty or something else happened they
just come and fix which is amazing and
it saves a lot of time the next
questions
the next question is whether you can use
a PayPass here is yes you can use Apple
pay not everywhere but I would say in
San Francisco like 80% of places would
accept f'l value which is a huge
progress because when it came here back
in 2015 it was impossible to pay with
like pay pass when you just tap your
card and the payment goes through you
would need to insert your card type in
your PIN number and the majority of
American banks still don't issue cards
with Fay pass which for me is like first
loop spend so much time in Europe this
is like the last century but I hope that
America is getting there at least you
can use your phone to pay which is
already in progress food in the u.s.
whether it's made of plastic okay so
again I think I live in a place where
you can find anything like gluten-free
bread with vegan butter and
organic whatever you're looking for
organic macadamia nut milk people are
crazy about food in California and yes
when I came here like first impression
oh there's only McDonald's I don't know
where to go but I think it's the same
for any country when I come to Europe
and I don't know where to go I end up
going to places which are not really
good I would recommend using Yelp which
is an app that helps you find a good
place to eat based on reviews because I
spent several years here I already know
what's the best place to go to get meat
I know the best farmers markets I know
the best places to get my groceries
so I think it's the matter of where you
shop yes you can go to Walmart or Target
and you won't get the best produce but
if your goal is to eat healthy it's
absolutely possible here in the US a lot
of places where you can get different
stuff deliveries etc I actually miss
American food now when I travel because
avocados in California are the best
oranges in California are the best I
love tomato species like all of that
stuff and I feel like I really want to
eat I hate talking about food in the
videos because like all my all my
thoughts I evolving around that peach
that I have in the fridge right now do
you ever feel like coming back home
right now no I love to go there for a
couple weeks I love to see my parents
help just see my grandparents some you
know other people that I communicate
with and when I'm in Russia like I
really like it I like Europe as well I
like traveling but I also feel that when
I'm there I don't know what I should do
like yes I could film some videos but
somehow I feel more inspired in the u.s.
I don't know how to explain it and I
feel that here in the u.s. I'm
surrounded by people who are much more
successful than I am and I feel there is
a you know space to grow when I'm in
Europe I'm surrounded by people who are
already happy with their lives there
like the work-life balance they start
working at 9:00 they finish at 5:00 you
know their goal is to live this you know
safe happy life which is not my type of
personality at least right now and I
feel more inspired in the US so
definitely not coming back in the near
future but you know
no you know never say never but what I
feel right now is I want to be in this
challenging environment and environment
that makes me want to grow how much
salary is left after paying taxes so
taxes salaries taxes in the u.s. are
approximately 40% of your salary again
depending on how much you're making but
if you're making like ten thousand
dollars a month did that four thousand
out of it and you're roughly left with
like six five or six K again depending
on where you are what your tax bracket
is but you can also be an independent
contractor so when you're an independent
contractor you only pay there's a
self-employed tax and there is like
profit tax so what happens to me and my
YouTube income I have an S Corp so I
have this money coming in from my
courses from like product placements
that I do but then I can also deduct my
expenses like for example I just got a
new camera if that you're looking
through to its lens I can buy some
clothes for my videos like makeup I can
hire a cameraman hire an editor this is
all deductible from my business revenues
if I don't make too much money there are
so many things I can deduct and I end up
like paying zero tax or again it depends
but my advice here is to hire a good CPA
who's gonna help you navigate through
the tax system well it's not that
complicated but there are so many things
that would help you save on taxes like
some things you can't deduct but if
you're working for a big company expect
to pay around 40% in taxes ah
the next question is advice to marina
from 2015 when marina was just moving to
the US v my advice this is a really good
question
what I was saying when it we just moved
here I think was spent too much time
going to events that didn't really make
sense just because we didn't know how to
navigate the society we didn't really
know what worked and we had this clear
goal of growing a company but we also
ended up going to a lot of meetups for
entrepreneurs and wind it up in those
meetups and
realized that people who go there they
don't really know what they're doing
with their lives and they're still like
figuring out a new business idea and we
spend too much time going there we would
go to other places like other cities to
attend those events I'd rather we had
focused on investor meetings or focused
on a product instead of just going to
those meetups if we try to make it a
more general advice I would say only
focus on activities that bring you
closer to your goal if you see a lot of
opportunities coming and yes there would
be a lot of opportunities just you know
stay focused and prioritize whatever is
important for you how do credit cards
work here great question and you know
credit history is a huge thing in the
u.s. so basically when you come here you
can only start building your credit
history once you have your social
security number and you can get it after
you get a legal status here in the US
like a work visa or certain visa you
can't really get a social security
number if you're just a tourist and the
social security number is linked to
whatever status you have now so what you
can do as a tourist you can just start a
debit card just to start building a
relationship with your new bank when I
just got my social security number I
went to the Bank of America and I
started a secured credit card which
means that I put $300 on the card and
they gave me $300 credit line which
doesn't make sense at all but in this
way I was able to start building my
credit history the second life hack is
that if you have somebody in the u.s.
already with good credit history you can
ask them to put you as a cosigner on
their account so you have access to
their funds their credit history
transfers to you that worked for me so I
did that and also once start some credit
lines once they hit two years of age
that would really help your credit
history because for example I was told
by my bank that in September I would be
able to apply for a mortgage because I
would have several credit lines that are
older than two years and I have a good
credit history because I was never late
with my payments and stuff and
you know financing is cheaper here like
getting a house you would pay like 5%
interest again depends on the terms that
you're getting we financed a car so yeah
I think it's a great tool to use if you
want to buy things that you cannot like
fully afford right now or even if you
can maybe you can invest money in
something better like I would rather
invest my money in a new course or like
new equipment and then just buy a car
and you know and sit with zero cash in
my bank account what are the things that
I don't like about American people like
American traits I say there is there are
a couple of things that I wasn't really
used to and I'm used to them first is
they are really good salespeople and
sometimes they just you know tell you
that they have this amazing business and
they're so successful and they're so
great but then you dig deeper they're
kind of average and they're just you
know they're not lying it's just the way
they present their success it seems so
big when it's not and the second thing
I've met them again it's not about
everyone here in the US it's just what I
see what I noticed from time to time the
second thing is that people promise
something and then they never do that
like for example I met a couple Marek's
would be like oh let's hang out together
let's go to see the movie on the weekend
yeah like yeah let's do it
and for example my culture when I say
let's go to a movie on the weekend we
really go there we really do that if I
say yes in America you say yes and then
nothing happens they never call you back
it's just you know it's like a social
act of just inviting somebody somewhere
but never going that I don't know
so and this this is something you just
have to get used to are you still in
touch with your friends back home in the
u.s. well the thing is when I moved to
the US I didn't really have friends I'm
not that kind of person that would have
a lot of friends I have some people that
I communicate with and yes they're in
Russia I met up with one of my friends
in Italy this summer and
of my friends are travelling all the
time so I am in touch with them so I
would say if you are interested in
keeping the relationship if you are
similar if those people are travelling
yes absolutely you can maintain your
relationship if it was just like kind of
this friendship where you just go out
with someone just because you have
nothing to do and I have those kind of
well I didn't really have them back in
saint-petersburg because I didn't really
have time to go out but those kinds of
friendships I wouldn't even call them
friendships but they don't survive I
think to my to my opinion right I think
because it wasn't really based on common
interest it was just based on you know
you having nothing to do on a Saturday
night unexpected expenses unexpected
expenses include medical bills they
include insurances like car insurance if
you would need to get it deposits like
if you're renting an apartment that
would be like $1000 whatever it depends
on the apartment thousand dollar deposit
or two thousand dollar deposit so
deposits and you know fines in the first
months of our lives here we got several
huge fines first was for wrong parking
was $80 and second one was oh my god
that we were towed away our car was
towed away and we paid $600 to get it
back recommend the bank for newcomers on
a tourist visa I would recommend the
Bank of America because they have the
secured credit card the second make I
would recommend is chase my favorite
bank they have amazing credit cards that
where you can accumulate miles and then
fly business class for like $80 because
you have so many miles so I use Chase
for my businesses and for my personal
credit cards these days
mobile phones again if we compare it to
any other country I think communication
is expensive here well I have this crazy
plan that is international as well so
whenever I travel outside the United
States my phone is working which is very
crucial for me because a couple years
ago I went to Europe and my phone
stopped working and I lost access to
banks and because I managed finance all
the companies that was
the best idea so now my phone works
whatever I travel and I pay around 80 to
90 dollars a month and it's unlimited
but whenever I'm abroad I paid 10 extra
dollars a day to have this unlimited
access to data and Cowles etc you can
save mine so my provider is AT&T but you
can also save a lot of money by doing
cheaper plans like when we just came
here I got t-mobile it was I think it
was $5 a month something like that very
cheap and then included maybe like 20
minutes 20 texts and then every week I
paid maybe like 399 I don't remember for
like the basic data usage plan so I
could have access to internet so I would
say minimum would be like $25 a month
how do you find friends when you move to
the US this is a very easy question to
answer because if you're moving here for
a goal again you don't need a lot of
friends you would need a couple and if
you're moving here to build a company
than you know meet other entrepreneurs
if you're coming here to look for a job
go to meetups where they teach you how
to build your resume or maybe attend of
course the class where they teach you
your professional skills like what
you're interested in build relationships
where your interest lies and I think
these are the best relationships did you
visit the US when you move there why San
Francisco Silicon Valley yes I actually
visited the United States in 2013 and
this is when I fell in love with the
country and decided to move here because
I was just excited about all the
entrepreneurial spirit that was
surrounding me and the sunshine and
happy people and why Silicon Valley just
because we got investment and I got
accepted to the University of Florida
and if we didn't get investment I would
have gone to wasn't ma'am it was
Gainesville in Florida but because we've
got investment it was in Silicon Valley
the program took place here and then we
just just decided to stay cuz it's the
best place to run a business okay and
the last but not the least cars cars and
insurances you cannot survive
in the US without a car if you live in a
smaller place like New York is fine
without a car
San Francisco 5050 we used to live here
without a car but when we have it now
it's a lot easier in Los Angeles is
impossible without a car
Chicago is okay without a car so depends
on where you're going you can get a
cheap car for like two thousand dollars
the first car I was twenty five hundred
dollars insurance depends on where
you're coming from your experience I
think our first insurance was $60 a
month now we pay $170 a month for a
Porsche Cayenne and this insurance
covers everything it has a $250
deductible but for example our car was
in a parking lot and somebody scratched
it so they had to color the bumper and
they had to replace one of the lights
and the bill was nineteen hundred
dollars and we only paid 250 and
insurance covered everything and also
provided us with a vehicle for the time
when it was repaired so I think it's a
great deal because again if we go back
to Russia where I'm from it would be a
lot more expensive that was it for me
guys thank you guys so much for asking
those questions don't forget to follow
me on Instagram lingua marina and don't
forget to sign up for our intensive
course intermediate-to-advanced in 30
days the link is below I'm looking
forward to seeing you there and I'm
looking for to teaching you more English
very soon bye bye